---
layout: post
title:  "6 tips to implement product management in your company "
date:   2016-11-02 18:36:17 +0800
categories: product management 
---

<center>
<iframe src="//giphy.com/embed/VgeGEVTdwzZao" width="480" height="270" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe><p><a href="https://giphy.com/gifs/teenage-mutant-ninja-turtles-yes-VgeGEVTdwzZao"></a></p>
</center>

Luxola was a beauty e-commerce platform that has been acquired by Sephora - as Sephora Digital in July 2015.

When I joined Luxola, there were only 2 software developers in the tech team and everything needed to be done in term of product management and team structure. 

In less than 6 months, the team grew by 4 times and we have implemented a real lean & agile process inside the tech team and with the other departments.  When I left the company, we had a proper structure composed of: UX designers, front & back-end engineers, product managers and data engineers/analysts. 

And here are 6 tips that you need to know if you are planning to implement a product lifecycle management:

<strong>Process you will need</strong> 

First of all, product management is all about roadmap. If you arrive, like me, on an existing product - spend time with the engineers to understand what needs to be done. Before going to any other departments or anything, go through the list with them and help them to prioritise/clean it up.

Your engineers team needs to trust you and understands that you are not another person that will arrive with crazy requests and change your mind 100 times a day. They need to know that you will give them time to create & think. As a software developer myself, I know it’s impossible to create something if the specifications change all the time and/or the priorities change. 

<strong>Communicate you will have to</strong>

Once you have settle down with your engineers and you are on the same page, then take time to understand the other stakeholders needs. 

At Luxola, the company size was about 50+ for 2 engineers, and they had no ticketing system. Can you imagine the difficulty for them to create something while handling support & requests coming from 50 other sources? That’s why we had to implement a ticketing/support process. This meant: changing people's habits… and it’s very difficult. So, be patient and communicate with them - explain them it’s for the best. And be ready to hear “before you arrive, I was in direct contact with the engineers and it was better” :-) 

<strong>Data driven you have to be</strong>

We’ve decided to implement a lean and agile process, which means that we wanted to be fast AND we wanted to test in order to take decisions on numbers and on consumer insights (no more “I think this is better from my personal point of view”) 

To do so, we had to create a data strategy and we have built the data engineer team. The whole company was working with them & the BI analysts, to have data insights. On the product side, we were working closely with them to implement tracking on the website, AB test scenarii, competitors analysis and consumer analysis. 

<strong>Customer you will think of</strong> 

Once you have your data, you can research and analyze about your consumer. Meaning, you can take decision based on them. 

In order to go further on this, we have integrated a team of UX designers - the experts of the user experience! With the product team, we were closely working with them to understand the change we needed, the solutions to test and the KPIs. 

We were also working with the operation team to implement a new warehouse management system, and to understand better what we had to do… we spent a week working with the warehouse: picking, packing and so on! Doing it is the best way to learn. 

<strong>Listen you have to</strong> 

To be a good product manager, you need to be a good listener. You have to work with a lot of different teams and people, you need to build a strong relationship with them. 

It will be hard because you will bring change… and nobody love to change BUT you have to. The best way to go for it is to listen and be patient. Show them they can trust you. 

<strong>Creative you need to be</strong> 

To make people change, to create feature, to create process… all of this require to be creative all the time. It’s hard because you cannot control when the idea is coming.

However, you can feed your brain by: reading,  listening, watching, playing and trying! And, take breaks ! 
